# SOS-Application
An emergency Application for Android users. Thanks to the contributor: Vijay(IT)

# Abstract
  SOS is an emergency handling application in Android. In an emergency, a user with this app can do call, send message to the registered contacts, record video and track location with a single button press on the app.  Thus, that call helps the person to know what situation is actually going on, also it helps to track the user and the location of the user will sent to people stating that “It’s emergency” with the address through SMS.  The app allows the user to do video record in case if there is no network in that place. That video can be helpful in future reference. All you have to do select a few numbers of your relatives and friends.
	The app updates the location when the user starts to use and sent the present location to their registered relatives and friends. In addition, this app trigger to provide the alert sound when the user starts to use, the nearby people can came to know there is something happening by the alert sound. 
	The users are allow to type the content of the message at beginning that sent to relatives at emergency times. The user can do setup for contacting either relatives/ police/ medical/ fire. This provides the security to user that are automatic like doing calling, messaging, voice recording and tracking. It will be very useful to everyone using Mobile and travelling more places. The app stands for the personal safety to the mobile users.

# Purpose
  The app helps in the emergency and provides the instant update on the current user to their parents/ friends. When there is an emergency, by using the smartphone it will take some time like to open every app individually such as google maps, call app, messages app, video/ audio recorder app. Sometimes opening these apps will consume time, so if we integrate all the functionalities within one app with one action that will be more useful for many users do these kinds of operation very frequently. As the app provides the automation to the user, thus it will do automatically by making call to police, sending messages to our parents/ friends, to alert by sounds with the same app.
	When there is some unknown situation what actually happening, the app provides the option to check out the location to google map API, also to play some alert sound, send message regarding our location and also to allow to take video for that situation within a single app to do all the operation instantly. The app will be more useful in the emergency and make to the user to feel safe with the app in their smartphone.
